Document Scheduler and Worker state machine (#6948)
dask/distributed: docs/source/worker-state.rst

waiting
    The scheduler has added the task to the worker queue. All of its dependencies are
    in memory somewhere on the cluster, but not all of them are in memory on the current
    worker, so they need to be fetched.
fetch
    This task is in memory on one or more peer workers, but not on this worker. Its data
    is queued to be transferred over the network, either because it's a dependency of a
    task in ``waiting`` state, or because the :doc:`active_memory_manager` requested it
    to be replicated here.
missing
    Like ``fetch``, but all peer workers that were listed by the scheduler are either
    unreachable or have responded they don't actually have the task data. The worker
    will periodically ask the scheduler if it knows of additional replicas; when it
    does, the task will transition again to ``fetch``.
flight
    The task data is currently being transferred over the network from another worker
ready
    The task is ready to be computed; all of its dependencies are in memory on the
    current worker and it's waiting for an available thread.
constrained
    Like ``ready``, but the user specified :doc:`resource constraints <resources>` for

>     this task.

Author: Not necessarily - resources may be free, but the threads may be not.

  ``ready``, or ``constrained`` directly to ``released``. Note that steal requests for
  tasks that are currently executing are rejected.
- Scheduler intercession, in which the scheduler reassigns a task that was
  previously assigned to a separate worker to a new worker. This most commonly
  occurs when a :doc:`worker dies <killed>` during computation.
- Client intercession, where a client either explicitly releases a Future or descopes
  it; alternatively the whole client may shut down or become unresponsive. When there
  are no more clients holding references to a key or one of its dependents, the
  Scheduler will release it.

In short:

.. important::
   A task can transition to ``released`` from *any* state, not just those in the
   diagrams above.

If there are no dependants, the task immediately transitions to ``forgotten`` and is
descoped. However, there is an important exception, :ref:`cancelled-tasks`.

.. _cancelled-tasks:

Task cancellation
-----------------
The Worker may receive a request to release a key while it is currently in ``flight``,
``executing``, or ``long-running``. Due to technical limitations around cancelling

> Python threads, such an event cannot cause the related asyncio task to be immediately

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Python threads, and the way data fetching from peer workers is currently implemented, such an event cannot cause the related asyncio task to be immediately
```
"asyncio task" is a slightly confusing term to use here to me. It's appropriate for the `gather_dep`, but I associate executing tasks with threads, not asyncio. I know there's an `execute` coroutine running, but we _could_ easily `.cancel()` that if we wanted to—the limitation is that it can't cancel its thread.

Maybe plain "task" instead of "asyncio task"? I know that's a bit overloaded with user tasks and `TaskState`s as well. "asyncio task or thread"? "underlying operation"?

I understand what you mean right now since I'm familiar with the current implementation and the existence of `execute`, just wondering if someone unfamiliar with the code would be confused why we were only talking about asyncio.

aborted. Instead, tasks in these three states are instead transitioned to another state,
``cancelled``, which means that the asyncio task will proceed to completion (outcome is
irrelevant) *and then* the Dask task will be released.

The ``cancelled`` state has a substate, :attr:`~TaskState.previous`, which is set to one
of the above three states. The common notation for this ``<state>(<previous>)``,
e.g. ``cancelled(flight)``.

While a task is cancelled, one of three things will happen:

- Nothing happens before the asyncio task completes; e.g. the Scheduler does not change
  its mind and still wants the Worker to forget about the task until the very end.
  When that happens, the task transitions from ``cancelled`` to ``released`` and,
  typically, ``forgotten``.
- The scheduler switches back to its original request:

  - The scheduler asks the Worker to fetch a task that is currently

>     ``cancelled(flight)``; at which point the task will immediately revert to ``flight``
>     and forget that cancellation ever happened;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ``cancelled(flight)``, at which point the task will immediately revert to ``flight``,
    forget that cancellation ever happened, and continue waiting on the data fetch that's
    already running;
```
Slightly redundant, but I think it helps clarify the point

  - The scheduler asks the Worker to compute a task that is currently
    ``cancelled(executing)`` or ``cancelled(long-running)``. The Worker will completely

>     disregard the new :attr:`~TaskState.run_spec` (if it changed) and just switch back
>     to the :attr:`~TaskState.previous` state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    disregard the new :attr:`~TaskState.run_spec` (if it changed) and, switch back
    to the :attr:`~TaskState.previous` state, and wait for the already-executing thread to finish.
```

silently ignore the exception and switch to its intended course, so
``resumed(executing->fetch)`` or ``resumed(long-running->fetch)`` will transition to
``fetch`` and ``resumed(flight->waiting)`` will transition to ``waiting``.

Finally, the scheduler can change its mind multiple times over the lifetime of the task,
so a ``resumed(executing->fetch)`` or ``resumed(long-running->fetch)`` task may be
requested to transition to ``waiting`` again, at which point it will just revert to its
:attr:`~TaskState.previous` state and forget the whole incident; likewise a
``resumed(flight->waiting)`` task could be requested to transition to ``fetch`` again,
so it will just transition to ``flight`` instead.

.. image:: images/worker-cancel-state1.svg
    :alt: Worker states for cancel/resume

.. image:: images/worker-cancel-state2.svg
    :alt: Worker states for cancel/resume

**A common real-life use case**

1. There are at least two workers on the cluster, A and B.
2. Task x is computed successfully on worker A.
3. When task x transitions to memory on worker A, the scheduler asks worker B to compute
   task y, which depends on task x.

> 4. B starts acquiring the data for x from A, which sends the task into ``flight`` mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. B starts acquiring the key x from A, which sends the task into ``flight`` mode.
```
To me, the data would be "for" y, but the data is x.

| - memory         | - memory              | - error                 |
|                  | - fetch               | - missing               |
|                  | - flight              | - resumed(fetch)        |
+------------------+-----------------------+-------------------------+
| - erred          | - error               |                         |
+------------------+-----------------------+-------------------------+

In addition to the above states, a worker may not know about a specific task at all.
The opposite, where the worker knows about a task but it is nowhere to be found on the
scheduler, happens exclusively in the case of :ref:`cancelled-tasks`.

There are also *race conditions* to be considered, where a worker (or some workers) know
something before the scheduler does, or the other way around. For example,

- A task will always transition from ``executing`` to ``memory`` on the worker before
  it can transition from ``processing`` to ``memory`` on the scheduler
- A task will always transition to ``released`` or ``forgotten`` on the scheduler first,
  and only when the message reaches the worker it will be released there too.

> Flow control

Reviewer: Reading this section of the docs makes me so happy with the design of the worker state machine. Having state transformation strongly separated out from IO and concurrency like this is so nice, and such a big improvement. Nice work!
